Apply filters to SQL queries
Project description
The scenario of the present LAB is me working as a security professional at a large organization, mainly working with the research team. Part of my job is to investigate security issues to help keep the system secure. 


A new potential security issue has been discovered that involves login attempts and employee machines. My task is to examine the organization’s data in their employees and log_in_attempts tables. 


In the following points I’ll be using SQL filters to retrieve records from different datasets and investigate the potential security issues.
Retrieve after hours failed login attempts
A potential security incident has recently been discovered that occurred after business hours. To investigate this, the log_in_attempts table has been queried and reviewed after hours login activity. Using filters in SQL to create a query that identifies all failed login attempts that occurred after 18:00; the time of the login attempt is found in the login_time column. The success column contains a value of 0 when a login attempt failed; a value of 0 or FALSE can either be used in the query to identify failed login attempts.


In SQL query we use the AND operator to retrieve the failed login attempts that occurred after business hours with login_time > '18:00' AND success = FALSE to filter for the needed records:



Values of TRUE and FALSE are not placed in single quotes because they are not string data. They are Boolean data, which is another data type.
Retrieve login attempts on specific dates
A suspicious event occurred on 2022-05-09. To investigate this event, all login attempts which occurred on this day and the day before were reviewed. The SQL filter was used to create a query that identifies all login attempts that occurred on 2022-05-09 or 2022-05-08. (The date of the login attempt is found in the login_date column.)


The login_date column in the log_in_attempts table contains information on the dates when login attempts were made. The OR operator is used to retrieve the failed login attempts on the specified days: 



Retrieve login attempts outside of Mexico
There’s been suspicious activity with login attempts, but the team has determined that this activity didn't originate in Mexico. SQL filters are used to investigate login attempts that occurred outside of Mexico. When referring to Mexico, the country column contains values of both MEX and MEXICO, hence the LIKE keyword with % is used to make sure your query reflects this.

Retrieve employees in Marketing
The team wants to perform security updates on specific employee machines in the Marketing department. I am responsible for getting information on these employee machines and will need to query the employees table using filters in SQL to create a query that identifies all employees in the “Marketing” department for all offices in the “East building”.
The department of the employee is found in the department column, which contains values that include Marketing. The office is found in the office column.The LIKE operator is used with the sign % to filter for the East building.

Retrieve employees in Finance or Sales
The team needs to perform a different security update on machines for employees in the Sales and Finance departments. I used filters in SQL to create a query that identifies all employees in the Sales or Finance departments. (The department of the employee is found in the department column, which contains values that include Sales and Finance.)


Even though both conditions are based on the same column, both full conditions need to be written, this means that the department must be specified as the column in both conditions.
Retrieve all employees not in IT
The team needs to make one more update to employee machines. The employees who are in the Information Technology department already had this update, but employees in all other departments need it. I used filters in SQL to create a query which identifies all employees not in the IT department. (The department of the employee is found in the department column, which contains values that include Information Technology.)

The WHERE and NOT operators are used to filter for employees not in this department.
Summary
This has been a practical experience in using SQL to run SQL queries to retrieve information from a database and apply AND, OR, and NOT operators to filter SQL queries. The LIKE and the percentage sign (%) wildcard were also used to filter for patterns. 
